DOCUMENTATION TASK 2.1The topic for the task 2.1 selected by this group is based on the task 1 presented by the group composed by Lisa Aita, Roberto Colangelo, Davide Rosatelli and Marco Cretì, concerning Jikan, an unofficial MyAnimeList API (Project #4).After using the Python programming language for coding the task 1 in October the group now managed to complete the task 2.1 using R programming language. MyAnimeList API is a free web service used to obtain information on tv series and movies about Anime, through the analysis of different typologies of anime showing the correspondent scores, ranks, and number of episodes published.Other important variables that have been studied in the dataset are the popularity of the anime, likes the anime received, the starting and ending period when they were aired, the duration of each episode and their Storyline. Inside the code it is possible to view how to manipulate a data frame and how to visualize the results.At the beginning it is necessary to install first the two libraries, “MASS” and “ISLR”, and the package “ISLR”.After that the code make possible to define the dataset requested and to translate it into a readable file, by using the functions “str()” and “read.csv()”.Our analysis is focused especially on distribution of quantitative variables, and in particular way on the relation between these and popularity. Subsequently through the function “pairs()” it is possible to create scatter plots for each variable of our dataset.In this lines we have worked with quantitative variables to obtain different information about the dispersion of our data; we selected 7 parameters: “scrode_by”, “likes”, “anime_id”, “episodes”, “score”, “rank”, “popularity” and “my_data”.We continue the analysis with the association between each single variable together with the variable popularity. In this way it is possible to visualize how different sets of data are comparable.Finally we made studies with same variables ( except “anime_id”) through the visualization of  different boxplots representing the distribution of a sample.